deno_dist/base/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/rimbu-org/rimbu/raw/main/assets/rimbu_logo.svg" />
</p>

# @rimbu/base

This package contains mostly utilities to implement the other Rimbu collections. The types are not exported by any of the other packages, but are internally used by most of them.

Most important are the exported `Arr` methods that are used at the basis of all the block-based data structures. These methods should be as correct and efficient as possible.

For complete documentation please visit the _[Rimbu Docs](http://rimbu.org)_.

## Installation

> `yarn add @rimbu/base`

or

> `npm install @rimbu/base`

### recommended tsconfig settings

Rimbu uses advanced and recursive typing, potentially making the TypeScript compiler quite slow in some cases, or causing infinite recursion. It is recommended to set the following values in the `tsconfig.json` file of your project:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "noStrictGenericChecks": true
  }
}
```

## Usage

```ts
import { Arr } from '@rimbu/base';

const arr = [1, 2, 3];
console.log(Arr.mod(arr, 1, (v) => v + 1));
// [1, 3, 3]

console.log(arr);
// [1, 2, 3]
```

## Author

[Arvid Nicolaas](https://github.com/vitoke)

## Contributing

Feel very welcome to contribute to further improve Rimbu. Please read our [Contributing guide](../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributors

<img src = "https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=vitoke/iternal"/>

Made with [contributors-img](https://contrib.rocks).

## License

Licensed under the MIT License, Copyright © 2020-present Arvid Nicolaas.

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for more information.

Commit message:

docs: document package usage in Deno
re #15

deno_dist/base/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/rimbu-org/rimbu/raw/main/assets/rimbu_logo.svg" />
</p>

# @rimbu/base

This package contains mostly utilities to implement the other Rimbu collections. The types are not exported by any of the other packages, but are internally used by most of them.

Most important are the exported `Arr` methods that are used at the basis of all the block-based data structures. These methods should be as correct and efficient as possible.

For complete documentation please visit the _[Rimbu Docs](http://rimbu.org)_.

## Installation

### Yarn/NPM

> `yarn add @rimbu/base`

or

> `npm i @rimbu/base`

### Deno

Create a file called `rimbu.ts` and add the following:

> ```ts
> export * from 'https://deno.land/x/rimbu/base/mod.ts';
> ```

Or using a pinned version (`x.y.z`):

> ```ts
> export * from 'https://deno.land/x/rimbu/base@x.y.z./mod.ts';
> ```

Then import what you need from `rimbu.ts`:

```ts
import { Arr } from './rimbu.ts';
```

Because Rimbu uses complex types, it's recommended to use the `--no-check` flag (your editor should already have checked your code) and to specify a `tsconfig.json` file with the settings described below.

Running your script then becomes:

> `deno run --no-check --config tsconfig.json <your-script>.ts`

## Recommended `tsconfig.json` settings

Rimbu uses advanced and recursive typing, potentially making the TypeScript compiler quite slow in some cases, or causing infinite recursion. It is recommended to set the following values in the `tsconfig.json` file of your project:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "noStrictGenericChecks": true
  }
}
```

## Usage

```ts
import { Arr } from '@rimbu/base';

const arr = [1, 2, 3];
console.log(Arr.mod(arr, 1, (v) => v + 1));
// [1, 3, 3]

console.log(arr);
// [1, 2, 3]
```

## Author

[Arvid Nicolaas](https://github.com/vitoke)

## Contributing

Feel very welcome to contribute to further improve Rimbu. Please read our [Contributing guide](../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributors

<img src = "https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=vitoke/iternal"/>

Made with [contributors-img](https://contrib.rocks).

## License

Licensed under the MIT License, Copyright © 2020-present Arvid Nicolaas.

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for more information.
