docs/docs/deep/protected.mdx, before:

---
id: deep-protected
slug: ./protected
title: Protected
---

import { SandBox } from '/js/sandbox';

TypeScript offers some helper types to prevent users from changing properties in objects. These are mainly the `readonly` keyword and the `Readonly<T>` type. However, they require diligence to apply properly:

```ts
const obj: Readonly<{
  a: number;
  b: { c: boolean; d: number[] };
}> = {
  a: 1,
  b: { c: true },
  d: [1],
};

obj.a = 2; // => compiler error
obj.b.c = false; // => no error!
obj.d.push(5); // => no error!
```

To create plain JS objects that can be considered deep readonly in TypeScript, Rimbu offers the [`Protected`](/api/rimbu/deep) function and type:

```ts
import { Protected } from '@rimbu/core';

const obj = Protected({
  a: 1,
  b: { c: true },
  d: [1],
});
obj.a = 2; // => compiler error
obj.b.c = false; // => compiler error
obj.d.push(5); // => compiler error
```

Like `Readonly`, `Protected` does not have any effect on the object itself, but only instructs the compiler that all its properties and nested properties are read-only.

`Protected` has the following properties:

- it casts arrays of element `E` into readonly arrays of element `Protected<E>`
- it casts `Map<K, V>` into `Map<Protected<K>, Protected<V>>`
- it casts `Set<E>` into `Set<Protected<E>>`
- it casts `Promise<E>` into `Promise<Protected<E>>`
- for plain objects (objects without functions), it casts `Record<string, V>` into `Record<string, Protected<V>>`
- any other type will not be affected

Caveats:

- There is no built-in readonly `Map` or `Set` type, so if these types are used, the compiler will not prevent
  the user from adding or removing elements
- It is hard to create a sane definition of a 'plain object' that works well in TypeScript. Currently, an object type is considered a plain object if:
  - if is not a primitive type (number, string, etc) or null or undefined
  - it is not a function
  - it is not iterable nor async iterable
  - none of it's properties is a function

## Examples

<SandBox path="deep/protected.ts" />

Commit message:

feat(deep): improve the API of the @rimbu/deep package, and update dependent packages and docs
The Match and Patch types are improved and Selector has been added to the Deep package

BREAKING CHANGE: The API for the `match` and `patch` and related methods has had major changes

docs/docs/deep/protected.mdx, after:

---
id: deep-protected
slug: ./protected
title: Protected
---

import { SandBox } from '/js/sandbox';

TypeScript offers some helper types to prevent users from changing properties in objects. These are mainly the `readonly` keyword and the `Readonly<T>` type. However, they require diligence to apply properly:

```ts
const obj: Readonly<{
  a: number;
  b: { c: boolean; d: number[] };
}> = {
  a: 1,
  b: { c: true },
  d: [1],
};

obj.a = 2; // => compiler error
obj.b.c = false; // => no error!
obj.d.push(5); // => no error!
```

To create plain JS objects that can be considered deep readonly in TypeScript, Rimbu offers the [`Deep.protect`](/api/rimbu/deep) function and type:

```ts
import { Deep } from '@rimbu/core';

const obj = Deep.protect({
  a: 1,
  b: { c: true },
  d: [1],
});
obj.a = 2; // => compiler error
obj.b.c = false; // => compiler error
obj.d.push(5); // => compiler error
```

Like `Readonly`, `Protected` does not have any effect on the object itself, but only instructs the compiler that all its properties and nested properties are read-only.

`Protected<T>` has the following properties:

- if type T is any, the result is also any (this prevents the compiler from infinite recursion)
- if type T is a tuple or array, it will return a readonly array of which each element `E` is converted to `Protected<E>`
- it casts `Map<K, V>` into `Map<Protected<K>, Protected<V>>` with all mutable methods hidden
- it casts `Set<E>` into `Set<Protected<E>>` with all mutable methods hidden
- it casts `Promise<E>` into `Promise<Protected<E>>`
- for plain objects (objects without functions), it maps all keys as readonly and all values `V` to `Protected<V>`
- any other type will not be affected (again, to prevent infinite compiler recursion)

Caveats:

- It is hard to create a sane definition of a 'plain object' that works well in TypeScript. Currently, an object type is considered a plain object if:
  - if is not a primitive type (number, string, etc) or null or undefined
  - it is not a function
  - it is not iterable nor async iterable
  - none of it's properties is a function

## Examples

<SandBox path="deep/protected.ts" />
