packages/deep/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/rimbu-org/rimbu/raw/main/assets/rimbu_logo.svg" />
</p>

# @rimbu/deep

Offers tools to use handle plain JS objects as immutable objects. The [`Patch` object](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/patch) allows convenient immutable modification of simple objects. The [`Match` object](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/match) allows easy matching on plain objects. The [`Path` object](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/path) allows easy querying of nested values. The [`Immutable` type](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/immutable) makes it easy to create plain objects that that have compile-time protection against mutation. The [`Tuple` type](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/tuple) is a utility to have similar functionality as `as const` but less strict.

For complete documentation please visit the [Immutable Objects overview](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/overview) in the _[Rimbu Docs](https://rimbu.org)_.

Or [Try Out Rimbu](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/vitoke/rimbu-sandbox/tree/main?previewwindow=console&view=split&editorsize=65&moduleview=1&module=/src/index.ts) in CodeSandBox.

## Installation

All types are exported through `@rimbu/core`. It is recommended to use that package.

To install this package only:

### Yarn/NPM

> `yarn add @rimbu/deep`

or

> `npm i @rimbu/deep`

### Deno

Create a file called `rimbu.ts` and add the following:

> ```ts
> export * from 'https://deno.land/x/rimbu/deep/mod.ts';
> ```

Or using a pinned version (`x.y.z`):

> ```ts
> export * from 'https://deno.land/x/rimbu/deep@x.y.z/mod.ts';
> ```

Then import what you need from `rimbu.ts`:

```ts
import { patch } from './rimbu.ts';
```

Because Rimbu uses complex types, it's recommended to use the `--no-check` flag (your editor should already have checked your code) and to specify a `tsconfig.json` file with the settings described below.

Running your script then becomes:

> `deno run --no-check --config tsconfig.json <your-script>.ts`

## Usage

```ts
import { patch } from '@rimbu/deep';

console.log(
  patch({
    a: 'a',
    b: { c: 1, d: true },
  })({
    a: 'q',
    b: { c: (v) => v + 1 },
  })
);
// => { a: 'q', b: { c: 2, d: true }}
```

## Author

[Arvid Nicolaas](https://github.com/vitoke)

## Contributing

Feel very welcome to contribute to further improve Rimbu. Please read our [Contributing guide](../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributors

<img src = "https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=vitoke/iternal"/>

Made with [contributors-img](https://contrib.rocks).

## License

Licensed under the MIT License, Copyright © 2020-present Arvid Nicolaas.

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for more information.

Commit message:

fix: improve 'menu' style exports for core, and improve documentation

packages/deep/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/rimbu-org/rimbu/raw/main/assets/rimbu_logo.svg" />
</p>

# @rimbu/deep

Offers tools to use handle plain JS objects as immutable objects. The [`Patch` object](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/patch) allows convenient immutable modification of simple objects. The [`Match` object](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/match) allows easy matching on plain objects. The [`Path` object](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/path) allows easy querying of nested values. The [`Immutable` type](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/immutable) makes it easy to create plain objects that that have compile-time protection against mutation. The [`Tuple` type](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/tuple) is a utility to have similar functionality as `as const` but less strict.

For complete documentation please visit the [Immutable Objects overview](https://rimbu.org/docs/deep/overview) in the _[Rimbu Docs](https://rimbu.org)_, or directly see the _[Rimbu Deep API Docs](https://rimbu.org/api/rimbu/deep)_.

Or [Try Out Rimbu](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/vitoke/rimbu-sandbox/tree/main?previewwindow=console&view=split&editorsize=65&moduleview=1&module=/src/index.ts) in CodeSandBox.

## Installation

All types are exported through `@rimbu/core`. It is recommended to use that package.

To install this package only:

### Yarn/NPM

> `yarn add @rimbu/deep`

or

> `npm i @rimbu/deep`

### Deno

For Deno, the following approach is recommended:

In the root folder of your project, create or edit a file called `import_map.json` with the following contents (where you should replace `x.y.z` with the desired version of Rimbu):

```json
{
  "imports": {
    "@rimbu/": "https://deno.land/x/rimbu@x.y.z/"
  }
}
```

**Note: The trailing slashes are important!**

In this way you can use relative imports from Rimbu in your code, like so:

```ts
import { List } from '@rimbu/core/mod.ts';
import { HashMap } from '@rimbu/hashed/mod.ts';
```

Note that for sub-packages, due to conversion limitations it is needed to import the `index.ts` instead of `mod.ts`, like so:

```ts
import { HashMap } from '@rimbu/hashed/map/index.ts';
```

To run your script (let's assume the entry point is in `src/main.ts`):

`deno run --import-map import_map.json src/main.ts`

Because Rimbu uses advanced types, this may slow down the type checking part when running your code. If you're able to rely on your code editor to provide type errors, you can skip the Deno type check using the `--no-check` flag:

`deno run --import-map import_map.json --no-check src/main.ts`

## Usage

```ts
import { patch } from '@rimbu/deep';

console.log(
  patch({
    a: 'a',
    b: { c: 1, d: true },
  })({
    a: 'q',
    b: { c: (v) => v + 1 },
  })
);
// => { a: 'q', b: { c: 2, d: true }}
```

## Author

[Arvid Nicolaas](https://github.com/vitoke)

## Contributing

Feel very welcome to contribute to further improve Rimbu. Please read our [Contributing guide](../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributors

<img src = "https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=rimbu-org/rimbu"/>

Made with [contributors-img](https://contrib.rocks).

## License

Licensed under the MIT License, Copyright © 2020-present Arvid Nicolaas.

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for more information.
