packages/base/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/rimbu-org/rimbu/raw/main/assets/rimbu_logo.svg" />
</p>

# @rimbu/base

This package contains mostly utilities to implement the other Rimbu collections. The types are not exported by any of the other packages, but are internally used by most of them.

Most important are the exported `Arr` methods that are used at the basis of all the block-based data structures. These methods should be as correct and efficient as possible.

For complete documentation please visit the _[Rimbu Docs](https://rimbu.org)_.

## Installation

### Yarn/NPM

> `yarn add @rimbu/base`

or

> `npm i @rimbu/base`

### Deno

Create a file called `rimbu.ts` and add the following:

> ```ts
> export * from 'https://deno.land/x/rimbu/base/mod.ts';
> ```

Or using a pinned version (`x.y.z`):

> ```ts
> export * from 'https://deno.land/x/rimbu/base@x.y.z/mod.ts';
> ```

Then import what you need from `rimbu.ts`:

```ts
import { Arr } from './rimbu.ts';
```

Because Rimbu uses complex types, it's recommended to use the `--no-check` flag (your editor should already have checked your code) and to specify a `tsconfig.json` file with the settings described below.

Running your script then becomes:

> `deno run --no-check --config tsconfig.json <your-script>.ts`

## Usage

```ts
import { Arr } from '@rimbu/base';

const arr = [1, 2, 3];
console.log(Arr.mod(arr, 1, (v) => v + 1));
// [1, 3, 3]

console.log(arr);
// [1, 2, 3]
```

## Author

[Arvid Nicolaas](https://github.com/vitoke)

## Contributing

Feel very welcome to contribute to further improve Rimbu. Please read our [Contributing guide](../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributors

<img src = "https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=vitoke/iternal"/>

Made with [contributors-img](https://contrib.rocks).

## License

Licensed under the MIT License, Copyright © 2020-present Arvid Nicolaas.

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for more information.

Commit message:

fix: improve 'menu' style exports for core, and improve documentation

packages/base/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/rimbu-org/rimbu/raw/main/assets/rimbu_logo.svg" />
</p>

# @rimbu/base

This package contains mostly utilities to implement the other Rimbu collections. The types are not exported by any of the other packages, but are internally used by most of them.

Most important are the exported `Arr` methods that are used at the basis of all the block-based data structures. These methods should be as correct and efficient as possible.

For complete documentation please visit the _[Rimbu Docs](https://rimbu.org)_ or the _[Rimbu API Docs](https://rimbu.org/api)_

## Installation

### Yarn/NPM

> `yarn add @rimbu/base`

or

> `npm i @rimbu/base`

### Deno

For Deno, the following approach is recommended:

In the root folder of your project, create or edit a file called `import_map.json` with the following contents (where you should replace `x.y.z` with the desired version of Rimbu):

```json
{
  "imports": {
    "@rimbu/": "https://deno.land/x/rimbu@x.y.z/"
  }
}
```

**Note: The trailing slashes are important!**

In this way you can use relative imports from Rimbu in your code, like so:

```ts
import { List } from '@rimbu/core/mod.ts';
import { HashMap } from '@rimbu/hashed/mod.ts';
```

Note that for sub-packages, due to conversion limitations it is needed to import the `index.ts` instead of `mod.ts`, like so:

```ts
import { HashMap } from '@rimbu/hashed/map/index.ts';
```

To run your script (let's assume the entry point is in `src/main.ts`):

`deno run --import-map import_map.json src/main.ts`

Because Rimbu uses advanced types, this may slow down the type checking part when running your code. If you're able to rely on your code editor to provide type errors, you can skip the Deno type check using the `--no-check` flag:

`deno run --import-map import_map.json --no-check src/main.ts`

## Usage

```ts
import { Arr } from '@rimbu/base';

const arr = [1, 2, 3];
console.log(Arr.mod(arr, 1, (v) => v + 1));
// [1, 3, 3]

console.log(arr);
// [1, 2, 3]
```

## Author

[Arvid Nicolaas](https://github.com/vitoke)

## Contributing

Feel very welcome to contribute to further improve Rimbu. Please read our [Contributing guide](../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributors

<img src = "https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=rimbu-org/rimbu"/>

Made with [contributors-img](https://contrib.rocks).

## License

Licensed under the MIT License, Copyright © 2020-present Arvid Nicolaas.

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for more information.
