packages/common/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/rimbu-org/rimbu/raw/main/assets/rimbu_logo.svg" />
</p>

# @rimbu/common

This package exports common types and objects used in many other Rimbu packages.

Here is a brief overview:

| Name            | Description                                                                                              |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CollectFun`    | types and values used in various `collect` methods in the collection.                                    |
| `Comp`          | an interface and default implementations of comparison functions to order/sort values.                   |
| `Eq`            | an interface and default implementations of equality functions to check value equality                   |
| `Err`           | functions to easily create error throwing behavior as fallback values                                    |
| `FastIterable`  | an `Iterable` implementation that can be more performant than usual iterables                            |
| `IndexRange`    | utilities to select index ranges in indexed collections                                                  |
| `OptLazy`       | a utility to provide values that can optionally be lazy                                                  |
| `Range`         | utility types to specify ranges for comparable types                                                     |
| `Reducer`       | an API to create reusable pieces of logic that process streams of data that can be processed in parallel |
| `TraverseState` | a utility for loops to maintain the traversal state                                                      |
| `Update`        | a standard way to update a value                                                                         |

Other than these values, there are a number of utility types that are exported that are also used throughout the collection.

For complete documentation please visit the _[Rimbu Docs](https://rimbu.org)_.

Or [Try Out Rimbu](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/vitoke/rimbu-sandbox/tree/main?previewwindow=console&view=split&editorsize=65&moduleview=1&module=/src/index.ts) in CodeSandBox.

## Installation

All types are exported through `@rimbu/core`. It is recommended to use that package.

To install this package separately:

### Yarn/NPM

> `yarn add @rimbu/common`

or

> `npm i @rimbu/common`

### Deno

Create a file called `rimbu.ts` and add the following:

> ```ts
> export * from 'https://deno.land/x/rimbu/common/mod.ts';
> ```

Or using a pinned version (`x.y.z`):

> ```ts
> export * from 'https://deno.land/x/rimbu/common@x.y.z/mod.ts';
> ```

Then import what you need from `rimbu.ts`:

```ts
import { Eq } from './rimbu.ts';
```

Because Rimbu uses complex types, it's recommended to use the `--no-check` flag (your editor should already have checked your code) and to specify a `tsconfig.json` file with the settings described below.

Running your script then becomes:

> `deno run --no-check --config tsconfig.json <your-script>.ts`

## Usage

```ts
import { Eq } from '@rimbu/common';

console.log(Eq.stringCaseInsentitive()('abc', 'AbC'));
// => true
```

## Author

[Arvid Nicolaas](https://github.com/vitoke)

## Contributing

Feel very welcome to contribute to further improve Rimbu. Please read our [Contributing guide](../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributors

<img src = "https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=vitoke/iternal"/>

Made with [contributors-img](https://contrib.rocks).

## License

Licensed under the MIT License, Copyright © 2020-present Arvid Nicolaas.

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for more information.

Commit message:

fix: improve 'menu' style exports for core, and improve documentation

packages/common/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/rimbu-org/rimbu/raw/main/assets/rimbu_logo.svg" />
</p>

# @rimbu/common

This package exports common types and objects used in many other Rimbu packages.

Here is a brief overview:

| Name            | Description                                                                                              |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CollectFun`    | types and values used in various `collect` methods in the collection.                                    |
| `Comp`          | an interface and default implementations of comparison functions to order/sort values.                   |
| `Eq`            | an interface and default implementations of equality functions to check value equality                   |
| `Err`           | functions to easily create error throwing behavior as fallback values                                    |
| `FastIterable`  | an `Iterable` implementation that can be more performant than usual iterables                            |
| `IndexRange`    | utilities to select index ranges in indexed collections                                                  |
| `OptLazy`       | a utility to provide values that can optionally be lazy                                                  |
| `Range`         | utility types to specify ranges for comparable types                                                     |
| `Reducer`       | an API to create reusable pieces of logic that process streams of data that can be processed in parallel |
| `TraverseState` | a utility for loops to maintain the traversal state                                                      |
| `Update`        | a standard way to update a value                                                                         |

Other than these values, there are a number of utility types that are exported that are also used throughout the collection.

For complete documentation please visit the _[Rimbu Docs](https://rimbu.org)_, or directly see the _[Rimbu Common API Docs](https://rimbu.org/api/rimbu/common)_.

Or [Try Out Rimbu](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/vitoke/rimbu-sandbox/tree/main?previewwindow=console&view=split&editorsize=65&moduleview=1&module=/src/index.ts) in CodeSandBox.

## Installation

All types are exported through `@rimbu/core`. It is recommended to use that package.

To install this package separately:

### Yarn/NPM

> `yarn add @rimbu/common`

or

> `npm i @rimbu/common`

### Deno

For Deno, the following approach is recommended:

In the root folder of your project, create or edit a file called `import_map.json` with the following contents (where you should replace `x.y.z` with the desired version of Rimbu):

```json
{
  "imports": {
    "@rimbu/": "https://deno.land/x/rimbu@x.y.z/"
  }
}
```

**Note: The trailing slashes are important!**

In this way you can use relative imports from Rimbu in your code, like so:

```ts
import { List } from '@rimbu/core/mod.ts';
import { HashMap } from '@rimbu/hashed/mod.ts';
```

Note that for sub-packages, due to conversion limitations it is needed to import the `index.ts` instead of `mod.ts`, like so:

```ts
import { HashMap } from '@rimbu/hashed/map/index.ts';
```

To run your script (let's assume the entry point is in `src/main.ts`):

`deno run --import-map import_map.json src/main.ts`

Because Rimbu uses advanced types, this may slow down the type checking part when running your code. If you're able to rely on your code editor to provide type errors, you can skip the Deno type check using the `--no-check` flag:

`deno run --import-map import_map.json --no-check src/main.ts`

## Usage

```ts
import { Eq } from '@rimbu/common';

console.log(Eq.stringCaseInsentitive()('abc', 'AbC'));
// => true
```

## Author

[Arvid Nicolaas](https://github.com/vitoke)

## Contributing

Feel very welcome to contribute to further improve Rimbu. Please read our [Contributing guide](../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributors

<img src = "https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=rimbu-org/rimbu"/>

Made with [contributors-img](https://contrib.rocks).

## License

Licensed under the MIT License, Copyright © 2020-present Arvid Nicolaas.

See [LICENSE](./LICENSE) for more information.
