docs/api/index.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Rimbu API Docs'
slug: '.'
---

# Rimbu API Docs

Welcome to the Rimbu API documentation! Here you will find extensive and navigable documentation for all the collection packages. All collections can be imported directly through sub-packages,
however, the the [`@ribu/core` package](/api/rimbu/core) also exports the same collections for convenience. In most cases, importing from `@rimbu/core` will be sufficient.

To read how to get started with Rimbu, see the [Getting Started page](/docs/getting-started).

## Package overview

| Package Name                                             | Description                                                                             |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`@rimbu/bimap`](/api/rimbu/bimap)                       | Provides BiMap implementations.                                                         |
| [`@rimbu/bimultimap`](/api/rimbu/bimultimap)             | Provides BiMultiMap implementations.                                                    |
| [`@rimbu/collection-types`](/api/rimbu/collection-types) | A convenience package that exports all the base types for Rimbu Sets and Maps.          |
| [`@rimbu/common`](/api/rimbu/common)                     | Provides many commonly used types and utilities that can also be of use to Rimbu users. |
| [`@rimbu/core`](/api/rimbu/core)                         | A convenience package that exports all of the main collections                          |
| [`@rimbu/deep`](/api/rimbu/deep)                         | Provides utilities to patch and match plain JavaScript objects.                         |
| [`@rimbu/graph`](/api/rimbu/graph)                       | Provides many types of Graph implementations.                                           |
| [`@rimbu/hashed`](/api/rimbu/hashed)                     | Pprovides implementations of the `HashSet` and `HashMap`.                               |
| [`@rimbu/list](/api/rimbu/list)                          | Provides the `List` implementation.                                                     |
| [`@rimbu/multimap](/api/rimbu/multimap)                  | Provides implementations for various MultiMaps.                                         |
| [`@rimbu/multiset](/api/rimbu/multiset)                  | Provides implementations for various MultiSets.                                         |
| [`@rimbu/ordered](/api/rimbu/ordered)                    | Provides various `OrderedMap` and `OrderedSet` implementations.                         |
| [`@rimbu/sorted](/api/rimbu/sorted)                      | Provides implementations for sorted maps and sets.                                      |
| [`@rimbu/stream](/api/rimbu/stream)                      | Provides the `Stream` and `AsyncStream` implementations and many related utilities.     |
| [`@rimbu/table](/api/rimbu/table)                        | Provides implementations for tables (2-dimensional maps).                               |

Commit message:

Connect the documentation of the proximity package

docs/api/index.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Rimbu API Docs'
slug: '.'
---

# Rimbu API Docs

Welcome to the Rimbu API documentation! Here you will find extensive and navigable documentation for all the collection packages. All collections can be imported directly through sub-packages,
however, the the [`@ribu/core` package](/api/rimbu/core) also exports the same collections for convenience. In most cases, importing from `@rimbu/core` will be sufficient.

To read how to get started with Rimbu, see the [Getting Started page](/docs/getting-started).

## Package overview

| Package Name                                             | Description                                                                             |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`@rimbu/bimap`](/api/rimbu/bimap)                       | Provides BiMap implementations.                                                         |
| [`@rimbu/bimultimap`](/api/rimbu/bimultimap)             | Provides BiMultiMap implementations.                                                    |
| [`@rimbu/collection-types`](/api/rimbu/collection-types) | A convenience package that exports all the base types for Rimbu Sets and Maps.          |
| [`@rimbu/common`](/api/rimbu/common)                     | Provides many commonly used types and utilities that can also be of use to Rimbu users. |
| [`@rimbu/core`](/api/rimbu/core)                         | A convenience package that exports all of the main collections                          |
| [`@rimbu/deep`](/api/rimbu/deep)                         | Provides utilities to patch and match plain JavaScript objects.                         |
| [`@rimbu/graph`](/api/rimbu/graph)                       | Provides many types of Graph implementations.                                           |
| [`@rimbu/hashed`](/api/rimbu/hashed)                     | Pprovides implementations of the `HashSet` and `HashMap`.                               |
| [`@rimbu/list`](/api/rimbu/list)                         | Provides the `List` implementation.                                                     |
| [`@rimbu/multimap`](/api/rimbu/multimap)                 | Provides implementations for various MultiMaps.                                         |
| [`@rimbu/multiset`](/api/rimbu/multiset)                 | Provides implementations for various MultiSets.                                         |
| [`@rimbu/ordered`](/api/rimbu/ordered)                   | Provides various `OrderedMap` and `OrderedSet` implementations.                         |
| [`@rimbu/proximity`](/api/rimbu/proximity)               | Provides `ProximityMap`, for retrieving a value from the _closest_ key                  |
| [`@rimbu/sorted`](/api/rimbu/sorted)                     | Provides implementations for sorted maps and sets.                                      |
| [`@rimbu/stream`](/api/rimbu/stream)                     | Provides the `Stream` and `AsyncStream` implementations and many related utilities.     |
| [`@rimbu/table`](/api/rimbu/table)                       | Provides implementations for tables (2-dimensional maps).                               |
